# States, futures, promises and delays

> Delays *defer* evaluation, and futures *parallelize* it.
>
> Identity types are *mutable references* to *immutable values*.

I am now in unfamiliar waters. Ch6 State required a very close read and brought up interesting new concepts. I also read half of Ch9 in Brave Clojure for a better overview. Still don't understand delays and promises fully, but I think I got `future`.

### Future

> futures are evaluated in a new *thread*. On multicore computers, two threads can run in *parallel*, on different cores the same time.

A very simple example of messy parallelism using `future`:

```clojure
user=> (dotimes [i 5] (prn i))
0
1
2
3
4
nil
user=> (dotimes [i 5] (future (prn i)))
0
2
1
34

nil
```

The thread writing 3 didn't get to print new line before 4 showed up, then both threads wrote new lines at the same time! It's like little demons in your program are fighting over who should come out as first.

>There are techniques to control this concurrent execution so that things happen in some well-defined sequence, like agents and locks, but we’ll  discuss those later.

the basis of *concurrency*: evaluating expressions outside their normal, sequential order.

A very interesting quote from brave clojure:

> The `future` function returns a reference value that you can use to request the result. The reference is like the ticket that a dry  cleaner gives you: at any time you can use it to request your clean  dress, but if your dress isn’t clean yet, you’ll have to wait.  Similarly, you can use the reference value to request a future’s result, but if the future isn’t done computing the result, you’ll have to wait.

### States and scopes

This part I do understand a bit. I learned `binding`  can be used to create a dynamic scope. 

> Using vars for mutable program state is a recipe for disaster, as we’re about to see.

I've saw `atom` in previous books. They are linearizable - meaning they will be in order even we do something parallel. We update them with `swap!`. However if we need to update multiple values,  we want *serializability*: global order. That's why we should use `ref`.

I've spent an hour now. I should probably do some coding and look back tomorrow, and maybe try the exercises under 'ground up' as well. 'Promise' looks interesting, wonder whether it has some relation with the promise in js.

