## States and atoms continued

Today I didn't get as much time into clojure. I'm continuing reading on chapter 10 to learn more about atoms. Things are starting to falling into structures, and there are \*deep\* discussion about the philosophical aspects of languages: what is existence? (Spoiler: Clojure sees it as a succession of values)

The three goblins are all spawned from mutable state:

>The Three Concurrency Goblins are all spawned from the same pit of evil: shared access to mutable state. You can see this in the reference cell  discussion in Chapter 9. When two threads make uncoordinated changes to  the reference cell, the result is unpredictable.

And how Rich Hickey designed Clojure to be safe:

> Rich Hickey designed Clojure to specifically address the problems that  develop from shared access to mutable state. In fact, Clojure embodies a very clear conception of state that makes it inherently safer for concurrency than most popular programming languages. It’s safe all the  way down to its *meta-freakin-physics*.

I remember seeing this in *Land of Lisp*. We are MULTICORE GUILD FORMATION FIGHTERS!

Different perception of Identity:

>*state* means the value of an identity at a point in time.

In a word, we don't 'change' the old thing. We just assign the same name to a new thing. Just like Fred's phone number 5 years ago and now are both called 'Fred's phone number'. The old number is not mutated into the new number.

This seems to be key in understanding atoms.

To be continued tomorrow...