# Tidying up

My journey towards lisp enlightenment began one summer day. I browsed through 'How to Design Programs', 'The Land of Lisp','Hackers and Painters', and many more. I worked through first pratical steps in [A road to Common Lisp](https://stevelosh.com/blog/2018/08/a-road-to-common-lisp/) and find pairs of parenthesis attractive.

Later, I found out [Why RoamResearch uses Clojure](https://mobile.twitter.com/Conaw/status/1176276601048199168) and decided to move to Clojure. By doing exercises in 'Living Clojure', I got into the flow of using VSCode and Calva, shuffling parenthesis around using Paredit. It was at this time I encountered ClojureFam.

## Looking Ahead

All my endeavours were all little pieces of basic functions floating around. I've thought of getting involved in an open-source project but the idea intimidated me. ClojureFam provides the excellent opportunity for a gradual involvement, and I am instantly convinced. 

Today my work was mainly trying to match what I know with the progress tracker of ClojureFam. I skipped through the first few chapters of 'Clojure from the Ground Up' and counted the problems done on 4Clojure. 1 hour spent plus writing this article.

### What I've Learned

Clojure from the Ground Up gives incredible insights.

From the chapter 'sequences',  I learned several new ways to deal with sequences like `map-index` and `take-while`, and also a nice way of describing `map` and `reduce`:

> Where `map` treated each element independently, reducing a sequence requires that we bring some information along. The most general way to collapse a sequence is `reduce`.

The problem: sum of the products of consecutive pairs of the first 1000 odd numbers was also a very interesting read. It shows the power of sequence-processing functions in Clojure, and also the power of macros: using  `->>` to reduce structural complexity.

A very nice way to intepret `->>`: **a chain of function invocations**

>```clojure
>(->> 0
>            (iterate inc)
>            (filter odd?)
>            (partition 2 1)
>            (map (fn [pair]
>                   (* (first pair) (second pair))))
>            (take 1000)
>            (reduce +))
>```
>
>This is how object-oriented languages structure their expressions: as a chain of function invocations, each acting on the previous value.

Just like in ruby! You can have `"hello".capitalize.reverse` etc.


I plan to spend another hour looking into some of the advanced topic and do another day of training 'Living Clojure'

The journey begins!

