# Restarting the Journey

It's been a long time since I last updated. My interest wandered to other things, but eventually I wandered back to clojure again and this time with some new knowledge learned on the offpath!

I read itsrainingmani's journey and felt it's very important to have a clear expectation set for the week. My expectation would be to 

finish reading state -> learn a bit of reagent -> look at athen's issues to see what I can contribute to 

while doing some problems in rich4clojure (Good old 4clojure is no longer running and rich4clojure is one of its successor)

While I am off, I got more familiar with parenthese in scheme and racket, and also gained knowledge of HTML and javascript. I also did some 4clojure problems and gained confidence in using calva and rich comments.

## What I learned

Today I went back to where I got stuck again in the state chapter in Clojure from the Ground Up. I was able to understand atoms and delays better thanks to previous readings in SICP.
I also went on to reagent's introduction website. Suddenly everything makes more sense.

A typical example is the counter app on the introduction website:
```clojure
(ns example
  (:require [reagent.core :as r]))

(def click-count (r/atom 0))

(defn counting-component []
  [:div
   "The atom " [:code "click-count"] " has value: "
   @click-count ". "
   [:input {:type "button" :value "Click me!"
            :on-click #(swap! click-count inc)}]])
```
Let's focus on `:on-click #(swap! click-count inc)` The value related to the key :on-click is a function. By wrapping `swap!` in a function, it is evaluated only when the button is clicked. If it is not wrapped,
`swap!` will be evaluated when the componenet is loaded (when the outer function `counting-component` is evaluated), which is not what we want.

