# Minimal Clojurescript

Until now I have been unfamiliar with the actual workings of a clojurescript project. Usually my workflow involve various libraries: lein creates a project for me, which has
shadow-cljs included. I then jack-in the repl using calva. Everything works like magic, but what's really happening?

With the help of https://clojurescript.org/guides/quick-start I was able to start a clojurescript project from the bare minimum. Just 3 things: a namespace folder structure, a main file and a deps.edn file for dependencies.

The directory looks like the following:
```
hello-world        # Our project folder
├─ src             # The CLJS source code for our project
│  └─ hello_world  # Our hello_world namespace folder
│     └─ core.cljs # Our main file
└─ deps.edn        # (macOS/Linux only) A file for listing our dependencies
```

How do we go from this to a working HTML page with js? If we run the command `clj -M --main cljs.main --compile hello-world.core --repl`, the cljs file is compiled to out/main.js with other dependencies. So it's just plain old javascript, just compiled from our new friend clojurescript! This is roughly the same as what's happening under the hood when we are doing calva jack-in with `deps.edn and built-in Clojurescript Browser Repl`,except I did not find a main.js. Perhaps again calva is working some magic here.

Now that I know this, it becomes clear how to use plain hiccup and js interop to write apps. What I need is to `(.querySelector js/document "body")`, and replace innerHTML using hiccup.
Calva has a getting started instruction on how to do this:
```clojurescript
(-> js/document
  (.getElementById "app") ;;=> DOM object
  (.-innerHTML) ;;=> HTML content, a string
  (set! "") ;;=> set the string to something else)
```

Tomorrow I will try to build a clock. This should be using a bunch of JS interop like `Date`, `setInterval`, etc. As a good side exercise I am also doing https://github.com/wesbos/JavaScript30. By trying to reach to the bottom of how things work, I got more confident with my understand of clojurescript. Now I am not afraid of using it!

This reminds me of a paragraph in A Wizard of Earthsea: 
> “He had read the runes of this Spell of Summoning in Ogion’s book, two years and more ago, and never since had seen them. In darkness he had read them then. Now in this darkness it was as if he read them again on the page open before him in the night. But now he understood what he read, speaking it aloud word after word, and he saw the markings of how the spell must be woven with the sound of the voice and the motion of body and hand.”

Through understanding the spells become much stronger! Though in the book the spell did not end well for the hero, clojure is not a forbidden spell, unlike the spell in the book, and I am sure good things will come out of weaving some clojure :)
